# MODEL1005200000: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1005200000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1005200000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is a model with 20 cells - 20 cytplasms and 21 apoplasts - as described
in the article:  
**Stochastic and deterministic multiscale models for systems biology: an auxin-transport case study.**   
by Twycross J, Band LR, Bennett MJ, King JR, Krasnogor N. _BMC Syst Biol._
2010 Mar 26;4:34. PubmedID:
[20346112](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20346112) ; DOI:
[10.1186/1752-0509-4-34](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1752-0509-4-34)  
**Abstract:**   
Background:  
Stochastic and asymptotic methods are powerful tools in developing multiscale
systems biology models; however, little has been done in this context to
compare the efficacy of these methods. The majority of current systems biology
modelling research, including that of auxin transport, uses numerical
simulations to study the behaviour of large systems of deterministic ordinary
differential equations, with little consideration of alternative modelling
frameworks.  
Results:  
In this case study, we solve an auxin-transport model using analytical
methods, deterministic numerical simulations and stochastic numerical
simulations. Although the three approaches in general predict the same
behaviour, the approaches provide different information that we use to gain
distinct insights into the modelled biological system. We show in particular
that the analytical approach readily provides straightforward mathematical
expressions for the concentrations and transport speeds, while the stochastic
simulations naturally provide information on the variability of the system.  
Conclusions:  
Our study provides a constructive comparison which highlights the advantages
and disadvantages of each of the considered modelling approaches. This will
prove helpful to researchers when weighing up which modelling approach to
select. In addition, the paper goes some way to bridging the gap between these
approaches, which in the future we hope will lead to integrative hybrid
models.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


